The Arctic Ocean is one of the most unique bodies of water on the planet.
It houses large charismatic predators; like Polar Bears and Seals.
Critical species like shellfish and phytoplankton,
and an array of organisms found no where else on Earth.
The Arctic Ocean is also the most inaccesable and least explored ocean.
It's remoteness and kept it ecologically prestine.
But the Arctic is where global climate change impacts are strongest,
and where global changes and underway.
Oceans currently absorb about a one fourth of man made carbon dioxice emmisions that enter the atmosphere.
As CO2 dissolves into the ocean it becomes carbonic acid.  With the innate ability to lower pH levels.
This phenomenon of lowering pH in the ocean, know as ocean acidification, is predicted to directly effect calsifying organisms.  Such as corals, phytoplankton, as well as the multitudes of marine life that depend of them for food and habitat.
If pH continues to drop then profound global changes in marine food webs and marine ecosystems could occur.
Ocean Acidification information is largely non existant for the arctic.
To determine what impact greater carbon dioxide absorbtion is having on the marine environment
US Geological Survey